docs/getting-started/what-is-a-llm.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What's a LLM?

Large Language Models (LLMs) are a type of program taught to understand text and respond back as a human would. They learn by being fed large amounts of text and they try to predict what the answer will be based on the provided information. The model's ability to understand and respond correctly is largely dependent on what information was used to teach it and how big the model is.

Generally, the larger models, the easier it is for it to learn new concepts, but requires a more powerful computer to run which can be a limitation when running on a desktop computer.  There are many different use cases for having a technology that can understand text and provide a response.

## Use Cases
With LLMs being a newer technology, new ideas are tested every day to learn what's possible. There are many possibilities of what it can do that are largely unexplored. Listed below are a few examples of what it could be used for as of today.

**Writing Code**

Give the LLM a short text description of what you want to be done and in what programing language and it will write it for you. Currently, there are limits on how much information it can read and write at once, so while it can handle writing small functions very well, it struggles when it comes to piecing multiple parts of code together.

**Summarizing Text**

One of the skills LLM's can do best. Provide it some text, and ask it to rewrite it in a particular style or format and it will give you an answer. These docs were written using ChatGPT as an editor to make sure the content is clear!

**Question Answering**

LLM's have a broad amount of general knowledge and can provide clear and concise answers about lots of topics. For many questions require domain-specific knowledge or recent information, because they only know information based on what they were taught.

## Running a LLM Locally
While using services like ChatGPT can be convenient and give good answers, there are privacy concerns. For many use cases, you do not want to be giving a company your private information such as medical records, or a company's intellectual property. If you are running the model locally, that means you are able to maintain control of your data without sharing it with anyone else.

Commit message:

Blaed Update #1
First batch deployment of personal notes.

Added a 'Self-Hosting AI' section to group a few pages to detail a starter guide running LLMs locally.

More than happy changing anything that should be reformatted. I ran everything (but the tables) through the contribution prompt template until it gave it passing scores.

Let me know if anything should be revised. Will be adding more next week.

docs/getting-started/what-is-a-llm.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What is a LLM?

Large Language Models (LLMs) are a type of program taught to understand text and respond back as a human would. They learn by being fed large amounts of text and they try to predict what the answer will be based on the provided information. The model's ability to understand and respond correctly is largely dependent on what information was used to teach it and how big the model is.

Generally, the larger models, the easier it is for it to learn new concepts, but requires a more powerful computer to run which can be a limitation when running on a desktop computer.  There are many different use cases for having a technology that can understand text and provide a response.

# What is a GPT?

"GPT" stands for 'Generative Pretrained Transformer'. It's a fancy way to name a type of artificial intelligence model created by a group named [OpenAI](https://openai.com/). GPT is designed to generate creative content, like writing text or interpreting conversations, using a technique called a 'transformer' to handle data.

Think of GPT as an AI character in a video game that has already completed numerous quests (the 'pretrained' part). It uses the knowledge and skills it gained from those quests to take on new ones, generate actions, and make decisions (the 'generative' part).

But not all AI models are like this game character. Some AI models are like the game graphic engine itself, transforming random pixels into detailed and realistic images. An example of this kind is Stable Diffusion.

So, while GPT models (like the famous Chat-GPT) are a kind of large language models (LLMs, akin to our game characters with rich experiences), not all LLMs are GPTs. Only the ones created by OpenAI are. But GPT's success has inspired many other versions of LLMs, each offering different abilities and advantages, much like different characters in a game universe that use different approaches to receive different results. Some companies out there are focused on writing new quests for LLMs to go on - while others are focused on the essence of the character creation or design process that sets up the rest of the 'game' in our analogy. 

Eager to learn more? Keep reading, and you'll learn how you can start interacting with these advanced AI models.

## LLM Use Cases
With LLMs being a newer technology, new ideas are tested every day to learn what's possible. There are many possibilities of what it can do that are largely unexplored. Listed below are a few examples of what it could be used for as of today.

**Writing Code**

Give the LLM a short text description of what you want to be done and in what programing language and it will write it for you. Currently, there are limits on how much information it can read and write at once, so while it can handle writing small functions very well, it struggles when it comes to piecing multiple parts of code together.

**Summarizing Text**

One of the skills LLM's can do best. Provide it some text, and ask it to rewrite it in a particular style or format and it will give you an answer. These docs were written using ChatGPT as an editor to make sure the content is clear!

**Question Answering**

LLM's have a broad amount of general knowledge and can provide clear and concise answers about lots of topics. For many questions require domain-specific knowledge or recent information, because they only know information based on what they were taught.

## Running a LLM Locally
While using services like ChatGPT can be convenient and give good answers, there are privacy concerns. For many use cases, you do not want to be giving a company your private information such as medical records, or a company's intellectual property. 

If you are running a model locally, that means you are able to maintain control of your data without sharing it with anyone else. This is especially important if you are starting a business of your own based around these technologies. Running your own AI/LLM comes with many exciting challenges, but can lead to equally exciting results depending on what you're looking to achieve.

If you want to learn more about how you can get started running your own AI/LLMs on your own computer, see our 'Self-Hosting AI' section in the left navigation window pane.
